---
layout: galileo_post
title:  Bootcamped
date:   2017-09-16 11:59:14 +0100
description: I never thought I would end up in data science...
---

I never thought I would end up in data science. I never even heard of the topic until I started thinking about what I should do after graduate school, when I stumbled across the bootcamp opportunity in my inbox from my department's mailing list. So I took a look - it seemed pretty interesting, so why the hell not. After all, it was free so the only risk to me was my time.

The application process was pretty interesting and took me ~60 hours to complete. There were two parts: the test-like part which has a correct answer and an open-ended part where you had to come up with a data science project and pitch it. The people who care about the application will complete the test portion without issue since it's essentially a Nike coding challenge - you just have to do it. On top of that, the test portion was technically optional. So it became quite obvious that the differentiating factor would be the open-ended section. 

At the time, I considered myself lucky because at the time I only knew MATLAB which is *awful* at handling big data - but I had an i7 with 64GB of RAM on my side so I brute-forced my way through the test portion over a weekend. The open-ended part was a different story, and took the majority of my time. I definitely spent a significant amount of time researching what makes a data science project good and to try to figure out how I could make mine stand out. I ended up with a project that coincidentally crossed a few data science topics including web scraping and NLP.

I think I approachd the elevator pitch part differently than most. Since candidates were supposed to upload their pitch videos onto Youtube, I hopped on, did a quick search, and found plenty of examples. So I sat there listening to all these pitches, and after about five	 of them concluded, "Good god, these are *BORING*!!". Many started with "My project is about...", some went too technical, and most didn't leave much of an impact - they were essentially simply descriptions of their project. I'm not an expert in elevator pitches, but to me, pitches need to be both captivating and convincing. It's not about describing, it's about selling. So while causation isn't correlation, it must have worked to some degree because I ended up getting accepted.

The bootcamp itself kicked my ass. I describe it as the most intense two months of my life, because in that time, I learned:

* How to code in SQL, Python, and Scala
* Tools for web scraping 
* The fundamentals of machine learning
* Basics of natural language processing
* Distributed computing, mapreduce and Spark on EMR
* Data visualization and web development
* Interview skills - interpersonal, coding, statistics, and case studies 

Coming into the program with a background of MATLAB and a tiny bit of C++, it was brutal. For six continuous weeks, I would start at 9AM with a lecture, then work on a variety of projecs until about 8PM. I'd go home, eat dinner, continue working until about 11PM, then go to bed. Rinse and repeat. Oftentimes, I'd take Saturday to continue working since there was so much left to be completed.

At the end of the trials and tribulations, I didn't get hired by one of their partners. Only one person out of our little cohort or 10 in the Bay Area ended up getting hired by one of their partners. But the knowledge that I gained from those weeks was incredible. I look back and can't fathom how I ended up surviving that hellish trial by fire, but I am definitely grateful that I landed that opportunity.

And just in case anyone is curious in watching my pitch you can find it here: [https://youtu.be/QEeGGuKTEwA](https://youtu.be/QEeGGuKTEwA)